# Signals

A signal is a notification to a process that an event has occurred.
They are sometimes referred to as software interrupts.
They are analogous to hardware interrupts in that they interrupt the normal flow of execution of a program.
In most cases,it is not possible to predict exactly when a signal will happen.
One process can ,if it has suitable permissions send a signal to another process.
It is also possible for a process to send a signal to itself.
However,the usual source of many signals sent to a process is the kernel.

### Causes of signals
Among the types of events that cause the kernel to generate a signal for a process are:

a) The user typed one of the terminal special characters that generate signals.
These characters include the interrupt character(ctrl+C) and the suspend character(ctrl+Z)

b)A software event occurred.
For instance,input became available on a file descriptor,the terminal window was resized,the process CPU time limit was exceeded or a child of
this process terminated.

c)A hardware exception occurred.
The hardware detected a faulty condition that was notified to the kernel which in turn sent a corresponding signal to the process
concerned.
Examples of hardware exceptions:
-Dividing by zero
-Referencing an inaccessible part of memory
-Execution of a malformed machine language instruction.

Each signal is defined as a unique integer starting sequentially from 1.
The integers are defined in <signal.h> with symbolic names of the form SIGXXXX.
For example,when the user types the interrupt character,SIGINT,SIGINT is delivered to a process.

A signal is generated by some event.
Once generated,a signal is delivered to a process which then takes some action in response to the signal.
Between the time it is generated and the time it is delivered,a signal is said to be pending.
-Examples of signals:SIGIL, SIGALARM, SIGINT,SIGKILL

signal(SIGINT,SIG_IGN) in case you want to ignore the syste


`fork()`
The fork() system call allows one process ,the parent,to create a new process(the child).
This is done by making the new child process an almost exact duplicate of the parent.
The child obtain copies of the parents stack,data,heap and text segments.

`exit(status)`
This library function terminates a process making all resources(memory,open file descriptors etc) used by the process available for
subsequent re-allocation by the kernel.
The status argument is an integer that determined the termination status of the process.
Using the wait() system call,the parent can retrieve this status.
-Note that status may be running,waiting or suspended.

`wait(&status)`
The wait()system call has two purposes.
a)If a child of this process has not yet terminated by calling exit,then wait suspends execution of the process until one of its
children has terminated.
b)The termination status of the child is returned in the status argument of wait.

Creating a new process:fork()
In many applications ,creating multiple processes can be a useful way of Dividing up a task.
For example: A network server process may listen for incoming client requests and create a new child process to handle each request.
Meanwhile the server process continues to listen to further client connections.

Nota on necessity of Dividing a program:
Dividing tasks up in this way often makes application design simpler and permits greater concurrency.

ignore,handle,block :how process responds to signal

```
@marvinus
```
